# Bellybutton-BioDiversity
Belly Button Biodiversity by the Public Science Lab,
who is living there?


Belly Button project has been called “Citizen Research Project” due to the participation and curiosity of people. Everything started with a grant by the National Science Foundation  coordinated by Rob Dunn and a group of science enthusiast. The project, based on discoveries about daily life, has been to find the micro life on the Belly Button. Moist and soft skin makes a perfect environment to grow bacteria. The study started, collecting samples and classifying every sample as an individual portrait, to  analyze if the micro environment changed by individual, to do this basic microbiology was done to extract and classified the 16 rRNA gene (key part in DNA to differentiate one species to another). The number of species in the Belly Button was far than what it was expected, the variety of individuals make called the Belly Button a Rainforest in the microbe world.

In an article published in November 14, 2012 by National Geographic, about the Belly Button experiment, is clear everyone's surprise when the number of microbes residing in one’s belly button reached 2,368 bacterial species! With 1,458 unidentified new species. The pilot experiment was done by North Carolina State University, samples were collected in the North Carolina Museum of Natural Science among 60 participants. The study extended, based on the primary results, getting up to 600 samples from participants living across the United States. Eight predominant species were found in 70% of the samples, being represented by large microbial population. Now, correlation of people activities and location started to show, but the major intriguing question in the relationship between bacterial type and population on the human body and the person’s health and characteristics. Curiosity has been far from normal, and the research team has now launched they next adventure: The Armpit-pa-looza!

